---
layout: post
title:  "Rover project: Is it going to happen?"
date:   2022-07-06
categories: beam
---
After the great success of the project LISER (...), me and Vasilis came up with the idea of designing and creating a rover for the URC (University Rover Challenge) competition. At this moment, the best senario for the project to start running is to be one of the three projects under the name of BEAM. BEAM, despite all of its problems, is an established team with a place to work (a little room inside the building of engineering school), some sponsors already know the existence of the team, and also there are some founding members of the team with more experience than us, to help us.

Although, I'm not sure if this team is ready to host a project like this. The rover is projected to be finished in at least 2-3 years (probably 3+), it could have near 30-40 members of different areas (over 50% of the BEAM's manpower at this moment) and it can be very costly (the total budget can even surpass 40000 euros if everything is included). The project needs excellent coordination and organising to be finished successfuly. A very analytical plan of actions (at least for the first few months) should be designed for the project to have a head start in planning our moves.

A founding member of BEAM suggested to discuss with a formula student team (e.g. Aristurtle, ART etc.) for some form of cooperation, as BEAM doesn;t have the knowledge to create a "device with wheels". This idea is actually pretty good, but also a bit utopic in my mind, as this type of teams have a specific amound of members to build an autonomus formula one car. In contrary, I think they should be able at least to share some technical knowledge with us.

We will re-present the project in about 1.5-2 months, in a more analytic way. so Some members of the team are skeptical for the project, after presenting (non analytically) the project to some members of the team, but we are ready for the challenge.
