---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts about LISER (Part 1)"
date:   2022-06-23
categories: beam
---
As you may know, I was a member of the LISER project (**LI**fe **S**ustainability **E**xamination (with) **R**adiation).  
The mission of this project was to detect ionizing radiation through a scintillator, which is the source of natural radioactive isotopes and cosmic radiation of an environment and based on this percentage of radiation, can determine how radioactive a planet or an arean on Earth is. The scintillator was supposed to be launched one kilometer above the earth’s surface into a can-sized "satellite" that performs other measurements too, like temperature, atmoshperic pressure etc..

In this post, I'll talk about the general problems that caused this project fail its purpose, without diving into the deepest problems of the project and the team.  

This project launched in October 2021 and finished, unsuccessfully, in May 2022. The main reasons why this micro-satellite didn't enter the rocket to be launched at an altitude of one kilometer above Megara's surface, is because, in the end of the day, the cansat was not even built properly. Think that, when was the time to weigh the cansat, it was placed in pieces on the weighting surface, like a bunch of potatoes. The LoRa wasn't working properly as there were some problems with the code. Also, as all of that weren't enough, the batteries were drained because they were left ON all night long, as LoRa was sending and recieving packages from the laptop. The team (except of some nembers thet will not be named for obvious reasons) was trying to finalize the construction of the cansat to prevent the inevitable, but in the end it was an impossible task. As our electronics guy (Vellios) couldn't be present in Athens, our software and mechanical manufacturing guy (Sakellaridis) was there to try to save the day for our little project, as he was one of the only members of the team that had experience with soldering. He tried to fix the short-circuited primary mission (which performs the general measurements we talked about), he also got his hands into soldering the most of the secondary mission (which detects the radiation) all by himself, except the soldering of the photomultiplier, as it was extremely hard to solder that so small component onto the board, so we sent it to a professional to solder it. The most of the team members went to bed late, and three of us, including myself, went to bed past 4:30 am. The day we were supposed to travel to western Attica, to the launching area of the cansats, the team had a quite difficult time of waking up. We were supposed to wake up about 6:30 am as all the team had to be at 8:00 am to the NTUA area for the arrival to Megara. Instead of that senario, the first team member (me) woke up at 8:15 am (didn't set an alarm, as I was inhumanely tired), I was completely shocked when I saw what time it was. I hurried up to wake up everybody as there was no time to waste. Note that not even the team leader had set an alarm, even though she was in bed way before than us. When everybody was up, the team decided to not participate to the launching event, as we would probably through a rock from the sky.

So, why the cansat was at this level of non-readyness? For first, team couldn't handle properly the absence of Vellios in the last period of the campaign, as he haw the only member with the task of electronics (!!!). Also, the large number of bad organizing decision and the non-balanced split-up of the members to the subteams, weren't helping the situation. But I will dive into the problems with more detail in the next posts.

